And now from Andrew to John
—the apostle John;
he was living at a most critical time
—the last surviving apostle.
He was helping to hold back
a tidal wave of worldly influence
and apostate thinking
that was already eroding
the Christian congregation.
Under divine inspiration,
John wrote
a most vigorous letter to his brothers.
We can still sense in him
that fiery enthusiasm
that earned him his name,
“Son of Thunder.”
And that letter, the letter
that we’re going to look at right now,
will show you
how you like John can thunder for Jehovah.
Well, how can you do that?
Let’s find out.
We’re going to open up now
to 1 John chapter 1.
We’re going to read verses 1 and 3,
and watch how John makes very clear
his objective right from the outset.
First John 1:1:
“That which was from the beginning,
“[now, the beginning was Christ Jesus
in his prehuman existence;
“he was the firstborn of all creation]
“which we have heard,
“which we have seen with our eyes,
which we have observed
and our hands have felt [him].”
And notice that John right away wants to grab
the attention of the brothers
and to say: ‘Look! We heard him.
‘We’ve seen him with our eyes.
We’ve observed him.
‘I’ve felt him. I touched him.
I laid my head in his chest.’
Did John even hear his heartbeat?
Well, the fact is
that these messages were so clear to John,
and he wanted to make it known.
Notice verse 3:
“That which we have seen and heard,”
again John repeats this.
‘His teachings, I saw them—I heard them.
I’m so convinced that God’s powers
are operating through him,’
that there in verse 3, John says:
“We are reporting also to you.”
‘I’m reporting this to you,’ John said.
John had such good reason to thunder.
He was a living link to Christ.
The brothers alive at that time
did not have the privilege that John had
to walk and to touch
and to be taught by Jesus personally.
But John did,
and he was so moved by these experiences
that he wanted to report
these real-life experiences about Christ.
But why?
To protect his brothers
—to protect his beloved brothers
from the false teachers at that time
who were trying to draw them
away from the truth.
You see, John spoke up against lies
that the apostates
and the other false teachers
were spreading in his day.
They were telling disgusting lies
about God and Jesus.
They craftily constructed speeches
designed to corrupt the teachings of Christ.
John knew that.
He felt it.
They even claimed to have
secret revelations and superior knowledge.
And they boasted that they were
the correctors of the apostles.
Liars!
And John could not stomach liars.
And it is of interest:
Out of the 15 times
the Bible used the word “liar,”
he used the word eight times.
You see, John continued to thunder, defend,
and speak out for the truth
because he loved the truth,
he loved Christ Jesus,
and he loved the Father, Jehovah.
Similarly today,
lies and false reports
against the truth abound.
And enemies of the truth use any means
to try to smear
the reputation of Christ’s brothers.
But, now, what’s the point?
Your time here at world headquarters,
your time with the Governing Body,
your time with the responsible brothers
from world headquarters
convinces you firsthand
that any negative reports that you hear
about the organization are lies.
And now you can thunder for Jehovah
by defending the truth
about those whom Christ appointed
to take the lead in his organization.
And look what you’ve been able to do.
You can say just like John:
‘Look, I’ve heard. I’ve seen.
‘I’ve observed. I’ve felt.
That is me.
I’ve had a close-up view.’
This is an even closer look
than you can have on JW Broadcasting.
This is one-on-one in the flesh.
And you can say:
‘I’ve had a close-up view
of God’s spirit-directed organization.
‘And now I am reporting to you,
my beloved brothers and sisters,’
in the assignments that you have.
That’s what you can do now
—‘what I’ve seen and I’ve heard.’
And, in this way,
imagine what you can do
to strengthen, stabilize,
and build confidence in your brothers!
This is your responsibility now.
This wasn’t coming here to school
just to have a good time.
I know you did have a good time,
but that wasn’t the objective.
The objective is now that you go out
and you serve your brothers
—all of you, each and every one of you,
brother, sister,
single, married; it doesn’t matter.
Your brothers and sisters now deserve
a Gilead graduate’s reward.
And you’re going to give it to them.
And you thunder in doing that.
Now let’s go back to the apostle John.
John’s thunder never diminished
to a low rumble.
Think about it.
What did John do
when he was released from prison
on the island of Patmos
at nearly 100 years old?
What did he do?
I mean, did he say:
‘I’m a weak, old man.
There’s nothing I can do anymore’?
No, no, no.
You see, he knew the apostasy was coming
and that oppressive wolves
were already misleading the brothers.
But John said, ‘Not on my watch.’
And he would continue to thunder for Jehovah
by using every fiber of his being
to help his brothers
right down to his dying breath.
How did he do that?
He wrote four Bible books,
including the portion that we just read here
in 1 John chapter 1.
He didn’t retire.
He was still full of fiery enthusiasm,
wanting to help his brothers
because he loved the truth.
But what helped John
to keep the thunder rolling?
What helped him?
He knew the final outcome.
You see, in 96 C.E.
before his release,
he received that unexpected flash of light
—the Revelation,
a vision
of 144,000 Kingdom conquerors
who will rule with Jesus in heaven.
He got that.
Then he was told
about an integrity-keeping “great crowd
. . . out of all [the] nations”
that would worship God in truth.
He got that.
Can you imagine
how that strengthened his conviction?
In spite of the apostasy,
he said true worship
would not be extinguished.
So think about it.
If a prophetic vision of the great crowd
encouraged John to continue
to fight and defend the truth,
what about you
—you who see not a vision
but the reality of its fulfillment?
Now, John is seeing the reality from heaven
—true—
but you have a front-row seat
right here on earth
as you witness the greatest preaching effort
in history
and you watch Jehovah perform
a modern-day miracle
by gathering
‘a great crowd from all the nations.’
No matter what we face now
or in the future,
keep the thunder rolling.
Why?
Because you know the final outcome.
You see it already developing.
John continued to thunder for Jehovah,
but he mellowed
through the years of faithful service.
His fiery enthusiasm is now on display
in perfect balance.
A man who once wanted
to call down fire from heaven to get results
now uses a force much stronger
and more effective.
What is it?
Love.
In fact, at 1 John 2:14,
notice what he says here.
And just sense the love that he has
when he writes verse 14:
“I write you, fathers,
“because you have come to know him
who is from the beginning.
“I write you, young men,
because you are strong
“and the word of God remains in you
and you have conquered the wicked one.”
Can you sense the love?
John is saying,
‘Look, the word of God remains in you.’
He used the powerful force of love
to commend his readers
because they never lost
their heartfelt appreciation for the truth.
Can you see yourself doing that?
You see, thunder without love is just noise.
But be determined
to lovingly commend your brothers
for their endurance.
Thank them for their integrity.
Commend them for their unselfish love.
Touch their hearts when you speak with them.
Our brothers need encouragement,
not criticism.
Well, as I look at each one of you,
I have a lot of thoughts
going through my mind.
I do.
I mean, here you are—
I mean, all the memories
are flooding through my mind,
flooding through my heart.
It’s amazing as I look at you!
I can still hear your comments.
But you know what else I can hear?
I can hear each day (when you came to class)
how you thundered into that classroom.
You did.
We have never seen such a thunderous class.
There you were each morning
hugging each other,
clapping for the morning worship comments,
commending each other.
It’s as if you hadn’t seen each other
in three months;
it was just last night you saw each other.
But, oh no,
you thundered in appreciation
for divine truth
and for the privilege to be here at school
and for each other’s
integrity-keeping course.
Now, as you leave,
what do we want you to remember?
We want you to remember
how you can keep the thunder rolling.
How can you do that?
I’m going to give you three ways.
One, defend the truth.
Don’t allow false reports and lies
about the organization that you love
—the organization that you love and cherish,
the very organization
that brought you to these seats.
Never allow lies and false reports
to stop you
from reporting
what you have seen and heard firsthand.
Two, remember the final outcome.
True worship will prevail.
You already see it doing so.
And three, use the powerful force of love.
Use love to commend
and fortify your brothers.
Encourage them.
Build them up.
Use love.
And like John, with all your might,
with all your ability,
thunder for Jehovah.